+++
title = "INSIGHT responsive parenting educational intervention for firstborns is associated with growth of second-born siblings"
date = 2024-01-13T00:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["JS Savage", "AK Hochgraf", "E Loken", "ME Marini", "SJC Craig", "KD Makova", "LL Birch", "IM Paul"]


# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "_Obesity Silver Spring_"
publication_short = "_Obesity Silver Spring_"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Objective: The aim of this study was to test whether the Intervention Nurses Start Infants Growing on Healthy Trajectories (INSIGHT) responsive parenting (RP) intervention, delivered to parents of firstborn children, is associated with the BMI of first- and second-born siblings during infancy.
Methods: Participants included 117 firstborn infants enrolled in a randomized controlled trial and their second-born siblings enrolled in an observation-only ancillary study. The RP curriculum for firstborn children included guidance on feeding, sleep, interactive play, and emotion regulation. The control curriculum focused on safety. Anthropometrics were measured in both siblings at ages 3, 16, 28, and 52 weeks. Growth curve models for BMI by child age were fit.
Results: Second-born children were delivered 2.5 (SD 0.9) years after firstborns. Firstborn and second-born children whose parents received the RP intervention with their first child had BMI that was 0.44 kg/m2 (95% CI: -0.82 to 0.06) and 0.36 kg/m2 (95% CI: -0.75 to 0.03) lower than controls, respectively. Linear and quadratic growth rates for BMI for firstborn and second-born cohorts were similar, but second-born children had a greater average BMI at 1 year of age (difference = -0.33 [95% CI: -0.52 to -0.15]).
Conclusions: A RP educational intervention for obesity prevention delivered to parents of firstborns appears to spill over to second-born siblings.."
abstract_short = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["childhood_obesity"]


# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this page with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]


# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = "10.1002/oby.23301"



# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = ""

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
