+++
title = "Whole-genome sequence and assembly of the Javan gibbon (Hylobates moloch)"
date = 2022-09-23T00:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["M Escalona", "J VanCampen", "NW Maurer", "M Haukness", "M Okhovat", "RS Harris", "A Watwood", "GA Hartley", "RJ O’Neill", "P Medvedev", "KD Makova", "C Vollmers", "L Carbone", "RE Green"]


# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "_Journal of Heredity_"
publication_short = "_J HERED_"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract= "The Javan gibbon, *Hylobates moloch*, is an endangered gibbon species restricted to the forest remnants of western and central Java, Indonesia, and one of the rarest of the Hylobatidae family. Hylobatids consist of four genera (*Holoock*, *Hylobates*, *Symphalangus*, and *Nomascus*) that are characterized by different numbers of chromosomes, ranging from 38 to 52. The underlying cause of this karyotype plasticity is not entirely understood, at least in part, due to the limited availability of genomic data. Here we present the first scaffold-level assembly for the *Hylobates moloch* using a combination of whole genome Illumina short-reads, 10X Chromium linked reads, PacBio, and Oxford Nanopore long reads and proximity ligation data. This *Hylobates* genome represents a valuable new resource for comparative genomics studies in primates."

abstract_short = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["sex_chromosome_evolution"]

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this page with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]


# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = "10.1093/jhered/esac043"


# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = ""

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
+++
