+++
title = "The complete sequence of a human Y chromosome"
date = 2023-08-23T00:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.

authors = ["A Rhie", "S Nurk", "M Cechova", "SJ Hoyt", "DJ Taylor", "N Altemose", "PW Hook", "S Koren", "M Rautiainen", "IA Alexandrov", "J Allen", "M Asri", "AV Bzikadze", "N-C Chen", "C-S Chin", "M Diekhans", "P Flicek", "G Formenti", "A Fungtammasan", "CG Giron", "E Garrison", "A Gershman", "JL Gerton", "PGS Grady", "A Guarracino", "L Haggerty", "R Halabian", "NF Hansen", "R Harris", "GA Hartley", "WT Harvey", "M Haukness", "J Heinz", "T Hourlier", "RM Hubley", "SE Hunt", "S Hwang", "M Jain", "RK Kesharwani", "AP Lewis", "H Li", "GA Logsdon", "JK Lucas", "W Makalowski", "C Markovic", "FJ Martin", "AM McCartney", "RC McCoy", "J McDaniel", "BM McNulty", "P Medvedev", "A Mikheenko", "KM Munson", "TD Murphy", "HE Olsen", "ND Olson", "LF Paulin", "D Porubsky", "T Potapova", "F Ryabov", "SL Salzberg", "MEG Sauria", "FJ Sedlazeck", "K Shafin", "VA Shepelev", "A Shumate", "JM Storer", "L Surapaneni", "AM Taravella Oill", "F Thibaud-Nissen", "W Timp", "M Tomaszkiewicz", "MR Vollger", "BP Walenz", "AC Watwood", "MH Weissensteiner", "AM Wenger", "MA Wilson", "S Zarate", "Y Zhu", "JM Zook", "EE Eichler", "RJ O’Neill", "MC Schatz", "KH Miga", "KD Makova", "AM Phillippy" ]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "_Nature_"
publication_short = "_NATURE_"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The human Y chromosome has been notoriously difficult to sequence and assemble because of its complex repeat structure that includes long palindromes, tandem repeats and segmental duplications. As a result, more than half of the Y chromosome is missing from the GRCh38 reference sequence and it remains the last human chromosome to be finished. Here, the Telomere-to-Telomere (T2T) consortium presents the complete 62,460,029-base-pair sequence of a human Y chromosome from the HG002 genome (T2T-Y) that corrects multiple errors in GRCh38-Y and adds over 30 million base pairs of sequence to the reference, showing the complete ampliconic structures of gene families *TSPY*, *DAZ* and *RBMY*; 41 additional protein-coding genes, mostly from the *TSPY* family; and an alternating pattern of human satellite 1 and 3 blocks in the heterochromatic Yq12 region. We have combined T2T-Y with a previous assembly of the CHM13 genome and mapped available population variation, clinical variants and functional genomics data to produce a complete and comprehensive reference sequence for all 24 human chromosomes."
abstract_short = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["sex_chromosome_evolution"]


# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this page with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]


# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = "10.1038/s41586-023-06457-y"


# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = ""

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
+++
