+++
title = "Congratulations to Saswat Mohanty for winning the Jeanette Ritter Mohnkern Graduate Student Scholarship in Biology"
date = 2026-04-20T00:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = []

# Tags and categories
# For example, use `tags = []` for no tags, or the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []
categories = []

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
# projects = ["internal-project"]

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = ""

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
+++
Congratulations to Saswat Mohanty for winning the Jeanette Ritter Mohnkern Graduate Student Scholarship in Biology!

Original email announcement:

Dear Biology faculty and graduate students,

On behalf of the Biology Graduate Student Awards Committee, it is with immense pleasure to announce the recipients for this year's Biology graduate student awards. Winners are selected based on their superior academic records or manifested promise of outstanding academic success. Note that the Mohnkern award has first preference to be given to female students based on donor's request. Please join me in congratulating all the award winners for the 2025-26 academic year!

Recipient of the Henry W. Popp Graduate Assistantship:
Vyankatesh Zambare (Anderson Lab)
 

Recipients of the Jeanette Ritter Mohnkern Graduate Student Scholarship in Biology:
Yunyan Mo (Stewart Lab)
Emma van der Heide (Shea Lab)
Saswat Mohanty (Makona Lab)
 

Recipient of the Dr. John Randall Shuman Troxell Memorial Scholarship in Biology:
Emily Le (Sipe Lab)
 

Recipients of the J. Ben and Helen D. Hill Memorial Fund:
Shimaa Ali (Liu Lab)
Anuleka Dutta (Anderson Lab)
Jack Boyette (Becker Lab)
Alisa Chernikova (Anderson Lab)
Mei-Ling Liber (Szpara Lab)
Stephanie Won (Koslicki Lab)
Gracey Brouillard (Becker Lab)
Jennifer Mott (Mao Lab)
Twishi Puri (Mao Lab)
Anthony Taylor (Archetti & Rosa Lab)
Rita Vadod’aria (Anderson Lab)

Congratulations to all the deserving recipients!
 
Warm Regards, 
Kimi Waite

Graduate Academic Coordinator

Department of Biology

208 Müller Building
