content/member/hana_palova.md, before:

+++
name = "Hana Palova"
author_names = ["H Palova"]
role = "Research Assistant"
short_bio = ""
id = ""
portrait = "portrait.png"
interests = [
  "Molecular biology and genetics of cancer and hereditary diseases",
  "Molecular evolution",
]
cv_link = ""
personal_website = ""
sort_position = 400
is_former_member = false
projects = [""]

[[education]]
  course = "Ph.D. in Genomics and Proteomics"
  institution = "Masaryk University, Brno, Czechia"

[[social]]
    icon = "envelope"
    icon_pack = "fas"
    link = "mailto:hjp5418@psu.edu"


+++

Before joining Prof. Makova's Lab, Hana worked for six years in the field of molecular genetic characterization of pediatric solid tumors and hereditary diseases in Prof. Slaby's research group at CEITEC, Masaryk University, Brno, Czechia. She got familiar with the interpretation of next generation sequencing data (mainly WES, RNA seq) and a spectrum of molecular genetic methods. She collaborated on several publications and grant projects. In Prof. Makova's lab she is responsible for cell cultivation, lab maintainance, and providing administrative support. Apart from work, she enjoys to spend time with her 2.5-year-old son. Her hobbies also include traveling, hiking, gardening and bird watching.

Commit message:

Update hana_palova.md add education

content/member/hana_palova.md, after:

+++
name = "Hana Palova"
author_names = ["H Palova"]
role = "Research Assistant"
short_bio = ""
id = ""
portrait = "portrait.png"
interests = [
  "Molecular biology and genetics of cancer and hereditary diseases",
  "Molecular evolution",
]
cv_link = ""
personal_website = ""
sort_position = 400
is_former_member = false
projects = [""]

[[education]]
  course = "Ph.D. in Genomics and Proteomics"
  institution = "Masaryk University, Brno, Czechia"

[[education]]
  course = "M.S. in Molecular and Cellular Biology"
  institution = "Palacky University, Olomouc, Czechia"

[[social]]
    icon = "envelope"
    icon_pack = "fas"
    link = "mailto:hjp5418@psu.edu"


+++

Before joining Prof. Makova's Lab, Hana worked for six years in the field of molecular genetic characterization of pediatric solid tumors and hereditary diseases in Prof. Slaby's research group at CEITEC, Masaryk University, Brno, Czechia. She got familiar with the interpretation of next generation sequencing data (mainly WES, RNA seq) and a spectrum of molecular genetic methods. She collaborated on several publications and grant projects. In Prof. Makova's lab she is responsible for cell cultivation, lab maintainance, and providing administrative support. Apart from work, she enjoys to spend time with her 2.5-year-old son. Her hobbies also include traveling, hiking, gardening and bird watching.
